---
layout: default
title: Setting Up the Initial Framework
---
For the web application, I've decided that a simple framework of Backbone.js and jQuery will be the most effective way to organize the code, while not sacrificing performance. jQuery will be hugely helpful as a method of abstracting away much of the messy code required to implement the user interface. It will be used for most event handling, in addition to its usual DOM manipulation capabilities. Of course, this project will only utilize the DOM abstraction lightly since all of the complex operations are happening within the 3d rendering environment, which is fairly separated from the DOM, apart from existing in an element in it.

Backbone.js, on the other hand, will be used to provide basic data modelling, in the form of models and collections (of models). I've decided that in the application, the basic unit of data will be the cube, for simplicity and ease of rendering (this may be expanded later). For now, that's all that's necessary to demonstrate the recursive operation that the user needs to be able to perform. Backbone.js will help define a cube model that will encapsulate most of the complication of creating, rendering, and manipulating cubes in 3d space.

Additional tools that will be used are RequireJS and Three.js. RequireJS is nothing more than a way to organize a JavaScript project into multiple files, and also has the capability of loading those files asynchronously, when they are needed. It mostly helps with managing dependencies between different parts of the app and the various libraries. Three.js is a general purpose 3d rendering library for JavaScript, and seems to be the current standard for this kind of work. It's comparable to something like OpenGL, exposing methods for defining and rendering materials, meshes, lighting, etc. It also leverages both WebGL and HTML5 Canvas, which is a plus because it provides flexibility, allowing the app to run on a wider variety of systems.
